WASHINGTON (AP)_ The Supreme Court, in an antitrust ruling that
could make bargain-hunting more difficult, said Monday that
manufacturers do not always act illegally when they agree with
retailers to stop supplying discount stores.
   By a 6-2 vote, the court said such action by a manufacturer
becomes illegal only when ``it includes some agreement on price or
price levels.''
   The ruling makes it easier for manufacturers to avoid antitrust
liability when, acting on requests from competing retailers, they
stop doing business with stores that cut prices.
   ``At the margin, this can make life harder for discounters,''
said Diane P. Wood, an antitrust professor at the University of
Chicago Law School.
   Noting that bills pending in Congress would outlaw such tactics
by manufacturers, she said, ``The legislation reflects a fear that
discounters could go out of business or find it harder to get
merchandise without such protection.''
   In other action Monday, the court:
   _Ordered further hearings to determine whether a New Jersey man
accused of helping Nazis kill more than 2,000 Jews in Lithuania
should be stripped of his U.S. citizenship.
   _Ruled that a procedural miscue by federal lawyers must result
in dismissing the government's contempt-of-court prosecution
against a Rhode Island newspaper that published FBI information
about a Mafia boss.
   _Agreed to consider a case from Washington state that makes it
easier for the federal government to turn over U.S. tax information
to a foreign government.
   _Refused to let Connecticut police subject all people who attend
Ku Klux Klan rallies to pat-down searches for weapons. The justices
let stand rulings that such searches violated individuals' privacy
rights.
   The court's antitrust decision is a victory for Sharp
Electronics Corp. and a setback for a former Houston retailer of
Sharp calculators.
   Business Electronics Corp., owned and operated by Kelton
Ehrensberger, was the exclusive retailer of Sharp calculators in
Houston from 1968 to 1972. During that period, Sharp became
dissatisfied with BEC's performance. Sharp contended it was unhappy
with BEC's failure to meet sales quotas.
   But a federal jury found that Sharp was dissatisfied with BEC's
policy of selling calculators at prices lower than those suggested
by Sharp.
   Sharp in 1972 appointed Hartwell's Office World as a second
retailer of its calculators in Houston, and in 1973 terminated
BEC's dealership. Hartwell had told Sharp it would quit
distributing its products unless Sharp ended its relationship with
BEC.
   BEC then sued Sharp, and a federal jury awarded BEC $600,000 in
damages. Under federal antitrust law, that amount was tripled to
$1.8 million.
   The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, however, threw out the
jury verdict and sent the case back for a new trial. Monday's
decision upheld the appeals court ruling.
   Writing for the high court, Justice Antonin Scalia said the
trial judge erred in telling the jury it could rule against Sharp
if it found that BEC was terminated to reduce price competition in
the Houston retail market.
   ``There has been no showing here that an agreement between a
manufacturer and a dealer to terminate a `price cutter,' without a
further agreement on the price or price levels to be charged by the
remaining dealer, almost always tends to restrict competition and
reduce output,'' Scalia said.
   ``A vertical restraint (one imposed by a manufacturer on a
retailer) is not illegal per se unless it includes some agreement
on price or price levels,'' he said.
   If the Sharp-Hartwell agreement had included a price level at
which Sharp's calculators had to be sold, however, the agreement
could have been ruled illegal automatically.
   Nothing in Monday's ruling bars a manufacturer acting by itself
from continuing to tell retailers that its products must be sold at
certain prices. The legislation pending in Congress would outlaw
even those pricing tactics.
   Scalia was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and
Justices William J. Brennan, Thurgood Marshall, Harry A. Blackmun
and Sandra Day O'Connor.
   Justices John Paul Stevens and Byron R. White dissented in a
23-page opinion authored by Stevens, and Justice Anthony M. Kennedy
did not participate in the case.